---
title: 2023-12-09 seeds
date: 2023-12-09
tags:
  - seeds
---
# Day 06

The Japanese Unitarians firmly believed that everything was religion. Politics, commerce, and education were all religious. This is why pastors later run for public offices and the richest gave their money to pastors. The thesis that every sphere of human life is religious is a modern take of Shintoism. If everything is sacred, everything is religious. If you dont like that word, you can say, everything is spiritual.

Mention Australian aborigines and songlines.

I feel though that religion and spirituality has krept into politics and commerce in a very unhealthy way that this thinking needs reinterpretation.

Restraint, contentment, respect on other people's freedom,

Ilocano restaurant with lots of smirnoff

I overhear two men taking. One was surprised to see the other. The other has been living in Pangasinan already. The other asks him what hell do with his house. Will he rent it out he ask.

Walking near a soldier or police camp. Chicken wire spiral on top of walls.

Been seeing lots of yellow in these walks.

Weird moment of silence

Someone died: woman 72 years old, blue tent, blue chairs, mess from last night's lamay

A cat sleeps in the middle of a stream

Women with brooms cleam the streets while walking

Morning to two women. One replied with smile. The other with a similar greeting.

I asked permission for the man who owns the house next to the pier.

I saw someone fishing.

The lilies moving like a breathing animal

Spanish occupation ancestral houses

Twins: both nutritionist dieticians

Hope in the middle of slums.

In the Philippines, we believe that sports esp basketball could get children out of drugs. Turns out Duterte believed more on violence than drugs.

Seeing this children today gathered here this sat morning speaks a lot about oir desire to come together and play in peace

Very young people vaping

Fish lots

All kinds of trades in this walk. See the difference between labor trades and intellectual trades like i do or i see at uplb

15,666 steps