---
title: 2024-01-20 seeds
date: 2024-01-20
tags:
  - seeds
---
- [[neutrality is impossible]]
- [[free religion needs some grounding]]

Might need a bit of reintegration, so stay here a bit. I could do a walk of sorts.

Other things to do:
- return to photographs (re-walking photographs to un-earth histories of my faith).
- try to talk to Mama about it.

How do we exist among those who are different from us? Should we welcome difference? Is there a limit to this? Do we set a boundary? Or is our openness boundless?

Complete neutrality and objectivity is impossible. Even our stance for neutrality is itself a position. Everything is relative. Because there is no God from which an absolute position can be concurred.

Although of course, I still believe in a physical universe out there.

I won't be sending an application. It will just take some time away from me. And I'm not sure I'm ready yet. We'll see after finishing OVIC.

I also have to read Writing Alone first.

Refocusing priorities
1. Spirituality
2. Writing
3. Lea's life and business (life design -> website)

Whats a subsistent spirituality look like? What must be developed?

Perhaps stop thinking about ministry for a while.

The religious path is the path.
Writing is here to help oneself in the religious path. (And others eventually.)

But the priority is understanding how to be - how to live.

Although I appreciate it, I have very little control of the design of my current site.

To create a subsistent spirituality, have a few rules to ground yourself (bind yourself).

No rules but a few grounding ones:

- support pluralism
- avoid emphasis on separation

Religion = religare = to bind

It is a spectrum
1. Bind too much (no freedom)
2. Minimalist binding (a few rules to ground oneself and to guide group)
3. No binding (illusory absolute freedom, no regard to others, takes all welcomes all)

Website will document how you are building your spirituality