---
title: 2024-01-22 seeds
date: 2024-01-22
tags:
  - seeds
---
- [[how to practice religious inclusion]]

Leaving the JWs was a fast change.

Then wilderness.

Now that you are trying to build a new spiritual life, you must take a slow and disciplined approach. Ok to be slow as long as consistent. Ideally, daily.

Writing should help with this main project, not hinder it.

Write something to Lea about how we can prevent wastefulness when giving gifts but still have room for giving a personal touch on gifts
- provide a list of what material needs I have
- A list of experiences

I like to think that the cup of rice I ate at lunch that once were grains were harvested from this piece of land I'm looking at right now.

Religion, like class, gender, ethnicity, and disability is a social category. Like these categories, there are religious identities that are more popular and therefore hold more power, while some are considered minorities. For example, Muslims are a religious minority in Myanmar and suffered under the hands of the more powerful Buddhist majority.

Anyone who supports inclusion in the aforementioned social categories should also consider how they can be sensitive in the religious identities of the people around them.

Some notes on practicing religious inclusivity.

- Never assume the religious identity of other people. Ask them about it and be curious.
- Avoid imposing your religious practices on others (e.g. using your way of praying when you're sure that people around don't share your faith). It's better to ask them if they're ok about it before saying your prayer.
- Even if you feel strongly about the need to evangelize, respect other people's desire not to be preached about.
- Don't equate religion to goodness. Even religious people can cause suffering towar others and even irreligious people can be compassionate.
- Support interfaith
- Understand that some people can have complex religious identities and this is okay.
- Be aware that many individuals can still be religious and spiritual despite their rejection of a God.

I'm a non-theist reli

