---
title: 2024-01-24 seeds
date: 2024-01-24
tags:
  - seeds
---
- [[man without a position]]

Contemplating positionlessness

- most things are arguably changeable
- although some things like one's past and body are difficult or unchangeable
- but our "position" (i.e., stand on matters) are changeable. They're not fixed. And it's important to remember that we can change our ideas and beliefs and don't have to keep those that no longer work.
- one can even take this position-less stand or more accurately a stand that premises on a freedom to change one's position anytime to adapt to reality

The most important thing to accomplish in the morning is:
- practice being
- practice thinking

Therefore, give priority to seiza, reading, journaling, writing, and Talahardin note writing.

Almost everything in my daily routine checklist has to come after these more important work.

So, from random note to contact, that should be done by 11 am onwards.

From 8 am when I wake up until 11 (at least 3 hours), focus on following your own line of thought freely and deeply contemplating.

A successful morning routine is not one when these items are ticked off but one where you really:
- existed/be deeply
- read deeply
- wrote deeply
- thought deeply

and made progress about at least one specific subject

Because of this, it's important to say No and block out distractions at this time.

Study direction for tomorrow:
1. Return to highlights of the AJB article and process them.
2. Think how to apply the framework in Part II in your conversion history.
3. Think about how to adopt Part III and IV into the spirituality you are nurturing.

Keep a study log (something like Andy's work log). This will be in lieu of your diary perhaps.

What to share to Andrew:

1. Part II is helping me understand better how to think about my past and perhaps inform the next Baguio walks I will take.
2. Part III and IV will have to wait, but they're making me think about what I want to do with my life. When I was a JW, it was so clear what I want to become: A missionary. Now even after 14 years, I still feel like I haven't made a clear commitment. There are tiny commitments (like I do want to continue writing, walking, photography, and studying philosophy (and because of you, religion and spirituality again). But it is still unclear how these things should add up. I call myself a writer to be safe (since it is what I mostly do). And lately, I'm even feeling some desire to return to some form of "ministry" i.e. working directly with people like I used to do with the Deaf which is different from the usually solitary work which is involved in the activities I listed above.

I admit, I haven't returned to the resources you sent during our first call. And I know I should start reading Imaoka's writings sooner rather than later. And yet this article you wrote is so good I am thinking about going deeper and reading the sources you mentioned.

By the way, I am a fan of how you study. Reading you tells me you really read a lot. I imagine this is a requirement for your life as a minister. But I also wonder what kind of discipline all these studies you do entails. I try to do most of my writing and reading in the morning.

This is making me wonder how you manage your reading and studies. It is no secret that I admire your work so much. So I am wondering whether you also bring this principle of openness and flow when studying. Do you for example, follow whatever feels right or strikes your curiosity and abandon things when needed? Or are you more systematic in your studies?