---
title: "2023-08-31 seeds"
date: "2023-08-31"
tags:
- "seeds"
---
- [[thoughts/buhian entry|buhian entry]]

Projects for September

- Editing and proofreading improvement
- Krys' paper
- The Bohol trip
- INWW entry
- Buhian
- Collab with Jesa
- Ili's website
- Work with Joji

If any, I need to deepen my reading of Bugbee and really understand his philosophy of place. That should inform the book I want to write.

But what am I sure of about it?

Remember: You shouldn't completely know what it will become. Treat it as an exploration rather than an imposition.

Just begin with a bleak notion.

What is my bleak notion of the book?

1. It will be about Los Baños.
2. It will be about my walks in LB.
3. It will have a religious nature: a collection of ordinary mystical moments (which should present themselves in the walks).
4. It will be a collection of lyric essays with photographs, poems, etc.
5. It will be very experimental in form.

Ang borador ay pinag-aaralan na rin ng mga akademiko. Pero trinatrato itong genetic material. Hindi ito ang final na akda na siyang isasakanon natin sa literatura.

Subalit ang punto na nais kong idiin, na siyang hiniram ko kina Bugbee, Marcel, at Thoreau ay ito: ang Borador ay natatanging akda rin dapat na hindi lang basta gagamitin para ipaliwanag ang isang final work.

May natatanging epekto ang borador at kahit na borador lamang ang matapos at maihain ng manunulat sa mundo, minsan sapat na ito.

Hindi sa laman ng isusulat tunay na mamamamalas ang pakikibaka ng akda kundi sa paraan ng paglikha rito.

Pagsasalarawan: cooking ng maginhawa vs hindi