---
title: 2024-10-28 seeds
date: 2024-10-28
aliases: 
draft: false
tags:
  - thoughts
  - seeds
---
1. How about those of us who put this man in power in the first place? How do we take accountability for what we did?  
2. A narrative that has to be broken (and this applies to many things) is this narrative of separation--that I am separate from the incarcerated or from the drug addict or dare I even say from this killer president. I am not. And because of this, I am never entitled to kill.  
3. Narratives of violence have filled up our history books, but this is because the violence of colonialism has eradicated almost all our cultural resources of nonviolence. Remember, we have Buddhist and Hindu roots lost during years of killing and pillaging in these lands. Alongside our very own pantheistic anitismo, we as a people know how to take care of life and how not to take life-- despite our long history of violence.  
4. Tell me my story of peace and nonviolence, for it is what I yearn the most.
***
To walk is to be in this place and in this body and to be briefly in touch with other bodies.

Road Widening project abandoned at Lopez. What kind of spirituality will I get from all these asphalt?

It seems to me that everything we're trying to do here, consciously or unconsciously, is how to best be in place. A better building. A better road. A better bike or car to traverse the road. Even the fixing of these electric posts. A way of running away from discomfort. What is it with discomfort that we are willing to be hurt to be as far away from it as possible?

Is the core of this discomfort uncertainty? The unknown? The thrownness of existence?

Perhaps, in a world so devoured by capitalism, it is impossible to hear the universe in the present. I need to read the past. To listen to the past for me to make sense of this present. Without this, everything is asphalt!

A tree is but revenge waiting to happen.
An entire writing morning disrupted by the deafening sound of a chainsaw waiting to happen.
An angry note against the electric company
A tree is a discontented seed.
A seed that refuses to walk.
A tree is a clearing, eventually.
A tree is a blackout, an early vacation.
Sawdust on asphalt
***
How can I improve the process of journaling and talahardin and walking to help me really listen to the universe?