---
title: 2024-07-01 seeds
date: 2024-07-01
aliases: 
draft: false
tags:
  - thoughts
  - seeds
---
- [[pangasinan literature and nation]]
# Pangasinan, Literature, and Nation

What is Pangasinan literature?

Linda Andaya
- culture, food, behavior
- Mirror of the past, present, and future
- Not just Pangasinan language (Ilocano, Tagalog, and English)
- UPSP: in response to the extinction of the language

What are the common themes in Pang lit?

Linda
- industries
- Famous Pangasinenses

Lex
- comedia

Narra
- scarce ang Pangasinense lit: mahirap maidentify ang themes
- Ilokano: migration

Melchor
- korido: about kings, princes, adventures
- Pangasinan: life of mga hayop
- Korido ni Pedro Sison: Bilay day Sisira ed dalem na danum (but the theme is politics: Philippine politics)
- Almost all sarswela has politics involved (along with romance)
- Mayaman at mahirap
- Contemporary writers: Philippine issues
- Eva Visperas, short story writer

How can we encourage readers to read Pang literature?

Linda
- difficult to reach young people
- They cant speak and understand Pangasinan
- jr chapter of UPSP

Pinoy Reads Pinoy Books
- Pangasinan walking tour at Malate
- Walking tour of Rosales

F Sionil Jose is a product of the town of Rosales. 
We need to know our local history.
Sionil Jose was an Ilocano migrant.

Orpilla
- advocacy: learn local history

Carmen Rosales
- artista

Pangasinan deteriorated because less writing happened.

Narra
- challenge this to writers not readers
- Nagbabasa naman ang mga Pilipino
- How can we give access to children?

How can Pangasinan literature contribute to the scope of Philippine national literature?

Charleson Ong

Urduja
- who started the myth? Maybe Rizal?

Literature -> Film

Movies in regional languages (with subtitles).

Limahong
-very Pangasinan

Lacuesta

Santiago Villafania
- through him, Fil literature was not just Eng and Tag
- He rejects translating his own work to other languages
- He was good in creating and he has integrity.
- He was known internationally as a Pangasinan writer.
- Digital painter

People read in social media.
- what you read now is possibly more than dati

Common challenges in publishing and distribution among regional writers

Linda
- pera
- Funded by NCAA pero mahirap maningil ng fund
- Ask people to sponsor your book
- pagkuha ng ISBN
- Cover ng book

Dean
- finding publishers
- Register then get ISBN at NBDB
- self publishin is easier

Mel
- PSU has a license to publish

Junley
- economic and emotional
- Economic was transcended by social media
- Emotional mas malakas
- Community: you need friends or teachers

Bebang
- 20 years in publishing industry; 8 years in gov
- Many people are not priority to be published
- Distribution: mahal magship ng libro
- 7 eleven tried to sell pero walang bumili
- Kaunti ang distribution channels kasi kaunti ang bumibili ng libro
- 10 books return payment after 3 years
- Shopee and lazada (no more consignment)

How do regional writers address manila centric literary scene and be visible?

Narra
- it is not the fault of Manila. Since no one is producing from within Pangasinan.

Linda
- walang bumabasa

Lex
- sumali sa contests

Dean
- magsulat nang magsulat; no other way
- Christian Cordero
- Bikol: dinala nila ang book festival
- One country one book project

Junley
- manila centricism is a matter of language
- Publication opportunities: CCP's Ani, NCCA publication grants
- Banaag published Pangasinan works by Villafania

Linda
- ANI only arrived in Pangasinan during Fidel Ramos.

Bebang
- ANI nagchange from place-based to theme-based

How to engage readers?

Linda
- home-reading activities at school

Melchor
- translates works shared in FB
- Social media helps in dissemination

How can regional writers collaborate with national writers?

Junley

Bebang
- If your work is unique, hindi masyadong ipaplagiarize.
- Creative nonfiction (essay)
- Have a unique voice and topic to avoid plagiarism
- Call waiting: Phonetica

How can we inspire regional writers to write in the regional language?

Linda
- Kurit Panalonggaring
- Recognition night for writers and authors

Dean
- we need to give them opportunities

Junley
- GBL
- Pangasinan short story
- Learn translation (teach yourself your language)
- Philippine PEN contest

## Opportunities

NBDB Grants
- publishing and translation grant

Frankfurter Buchmese (FBM) Participation Grant

NBDB register for free

ipophil.gov.ph

The Written Property

BCRR

NCAA Competitive Grants
- write a proposal
- August 31, 2024

KWF
- Dangal ng Wikang filipino
- Kampeon ng Wika

Sumali sa Gawad Julian Cruz Balmaseda

Grant sa pagdokumento ng wika at kultura ng pilipinas

Aklat ng Bayan Series

Makata ng Taon
Patimpalak sa Sanaysay

Dula Tayo
- 2 tauhan
- 1 tauhan
- not regular

UP Likhaan

UP sentro ng wikang filipino
- Aklatang Bayan Online

Spark Philippines

The Indie Publishers Collab PH
- open din sila sa manuscripts

Cultural center of the Philippines
- Kaisa Sining

Write in the most honest way you can.

Konyo Pangasinan. Go lang.

Ortography

Dictionary

Start a Pangasinan book club