---
title: 𝌡 Uman — April 2024
date: 2024-05-01
aliases: 
draft: false
tags:
  - essays
  - uman
  - evergreens
---
The question I'm still trying to answer this days is how I might be able to convert writing into some sort of a ministry or service

- [[2024-04-11 kiitsu kyokai]]
	- Heresy is a fundamental aspect of free religion.
	- We need not think alike to love alike. – Francis David
	- People commit to principles because of their need for community. How will people reach that point when they will commit to community?
	- Can you teach religion without teaching a specific religion?
	- Freedom needs rules because it exist in community and nature.
	- Traditional religions change and that is proof of free religion.
- [[2024-04-25 kiitsu kyokai]]
	- balance between the self and the community
	- should these two entities be treated as equals or should one be more important than the other?
		- we could interpret this as that when we are free as individuals we become closer together; likewise, we we become closer, we become freer
		- this interpretation goes against this often cited idea that the individual and community is at odds against each other. Or more specifically that "freedom" declines when "community is strengthened" and "community declines when freedom is strengthened."
		- And when we talk about this, we can't escape but to talk about politics a bit, because politics in its very core is simply about how one relates to the other.

The realization that my goal is to blur the difference between my inner life and outer life so that I am whole.

# Readings

- Read Wikipedia about Thomas Merton.
- Read [[an unorthodox lecture wienpahl|An Unorthodox Lecture by Wienpahl]].
- Read the poem [[theology welch|Theology by Welch]].


- Posted a review of Abi Nako on FB.

# Be a Gateway

- Continued processing [[be the gateway blank|Be the Gateway by Blank]].

# Material Contexts and Creativity

- Created [[material contexts affect creativity]].

# Pangasinan Literature

- Chatted with Lex Castillo about actions we can take with writing in Pangasinan.
- Wrote a long feedback on Lex's poems.
- I became an official member of UPSP.
- Went to Lingayen to visit PPC and have a conversation with Nic and Dean Alfred Narra about the possible path forward for Pangasinan literature.
- While in Pangasinan, I started reading [[laineng ed casborran orpilla|Laineng ed Casborran by Orpilla]] (unfinished)

# MA in Creative Writing?

- Checked out the registration process for Graduate Studies in UPD.
- Checked [[austin kleon|Austin Kleon's]] thoughts about graduate studies.

A walk with a writer friend last month got me thinking about the possibility of doing a masters in creative writing. Like most things that require some measure of commitment, I have some doubts. This is something I thought about this month. In thinking about this, I reviewed my previous notes and thoughts about unschooling and read [[austin kleon|Austin Kleon's]] thoughts about graduate studies. Like institutional religion, I'm also not a fan of institutional education. I have a bachelor's degree, but I learned and read more after I finished college. That said, there are clear benefits of a master's degree, especially if one wants to pursue a writing career in the Philippines where readership is a big problem. Going through institutions opens oneself to opportunities for publication and more stable career and connections. I question this because I am not sure I want a traditional writing career. I feel challenged by writing, especially when reading the works of my colleagues. But as I grow in my spiritual life, it is becoming clear to me that if writing will ever have a place in my life moving forward (which it will), it has to be a spiritual practice and a form of service (i.e., ministry) to others (i.e., readers) rather than an art. 

Because of this, I am currently delaying my application for a master's degree, while I figure out how best to combine writing and spirituality in my unique situation.

# Writing as Spiritual Practice

- I started watching and taking notes on [[writing as spiritual practice martin|Writing as Spiritual Practice by Martin]].
- Researched how Fr. Martin uses writing and how he writes.

# Newsletters + Writing

- [[uman 2024-03]]
- [[letter to the lost]]

Sent essays to IYAS and Santelmo.

# Walks

- Walked around Nagilayan to check the fish ponds.