---
title: 𝌡 Uman — January 2024
date: 2024-02-02
tags:
  - evergreens
  - uman
draft: false
---
## Looking Back at 2023

Wrote and published the last Uman issue for 2023: [[essays/uman 2023-12|uman 2023-12]]

Worked on writing [[essays/2023 annual review|2023 annual review]]

Realized that authenticity and focus will be my main themes this year

## Tall Tales

Call with Louise Far regarding how to approach the Baguio Walk.
Modified the plan based on consultation with Louise Far.
Finalized the list of routes for the Baguio walk.
Finished Tall Tales poster and IG post and shared them in IG.

[Share poster here]

Wrote an introduction: [[essays/baguio walk 1|baguio walk 1]]

Did a total of three walks.
Wrote five missives, including the closing essay.
The most difficult walk was the first walk because it involved returning to the kingdom hall at Rimando.
My favorite essay to write was the third walk. Because how I framed it only came to me the night before the walk. I told myself I'm going to write it as an epistolary essay and I'll be talking to one person in particular.

Best lessons I learned from Tall Tales
- Use the present moment as an anchor when returning to places of gravity to protect yourself.
- I am a kissa, a portal for people to experience something they long for. My words, writings, photographs, actions, and, more importantly, my presence bring the experience I want others to have, one that isn't always readily available in the world out there.
- One day I want to encounter the people I left from my past not hiding but being my most authentic self.
- Our beliefs shouldn't be what prevent us from communion. They should be what makes us thirsty for connection even with people who are different from us.

## Nietzsche

- Re-read [[literature/the freedom to be tomorrow brown|The freedom to be tomorrow]] and processed its highlights.
- Read [[literature/superficial out of profundity bearn|superficial out of profundity bearn]] and made highlights.

Most important realizations from studying Nietzsche's framework
- Walking back to places from my past triggers emotions that inform me where I am in my healing journey.
- Walking back to places from my past facilitates incorporation. It is only after incorporation can I say that my convalescence is done.
- What makes me feel warm is engaging with existence, i.e., seeing how ordinary objects and events are portals to existential questions and emotions.
- Without a metaphysical grounding, we see things as they really are as if for the first time, fragile and transient. This fragility makes them precious and draws us closer to us.

I wrote an essay to summarize my insights: [[essays/where the sun warms|Where the sun warms]].
